# Interface Control Document (ICD) - svc-scheduler

## ðŸ¤ Private API - gRPC

A Private API is typically not exposed to the outside world. Private APIs are commonly used for inter-process communication (IPC) between services on the same device.
[`gRPC`](https://grpc.io/) is a modern, open-source Remote Procedure Call (RPC) framework.


Method | Description
---- | -----
`is_ready` | Returns `true` if server is up and running.
`query_flight` | Takes parameters about the customer location and requested flight parameters and returns next available flight draft. (as an array with one result)
`confirm_flight` | Takes `id` of the draft flight returned from the `query_flight` and confirms the flight.
`cancel_flight` | Takes `id` of the draft flight returned from the `query_flight` and cancels the flight.

More details about the interface can be found in following files:

File | Description
---- | -----
[svc-scheduler.proto](../proto/svc-scheduler.proto) | Common gRPC interfaces, protocol buffer file.
[svc-scheduler.rs](../server/src/svc-scheduler.rs) | Autogenerated Rust Code

### :space_invader: Integrated Authentication & Encryption

gRPC supports Transport Layer Security (TLS): https://grpc.io/docs/guides/auth/

SSL/TLS certificates will be stored as `.pem` file contents in the GitHub organization as [Encrypted Environment Secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets). These environment secrets can be accessed by the CI/CD pipeline without exposing the information to the public.

> Privacy Enhanced Mail, or as it is commonly known PEM, is a file format widely used for storing and transferring encrypted data, especially certificates and cryptographic keys
